docs: clarify upstream expectations (#22085)
Homebrew/brew: docs/Working-with-Homebrew-as-an-Upstream-Project.md

---
last_review_date: "2026-04-25"
---

# Working with Homebrew as an Upstream Project

If you maintain software packaged by Homebrew, thank you. The points below should help set expectations.

## How Homebrew works differently

- Formulae and casks in Homebrew's official taps, `homebrew/core` and `homebrew/cask`, are maintained by a shared pool of volunteer contributors and maintainers.
- The person opening an issue or pull request may be the first person who noticed a problem rather than someone with long-term context for that package.
- Homebrew prefers to package popular and widely used software in `homebrew/core` or `homebrew/cask` when it meets our requirements, even if upstream also ships a tap.
- Technical discussions should stay on GitHub where they can be linked later.

> - Contentious decisions may also be discussed by maintainers in Slack or in person at our AGM, but any decision made there should be summarised back on the relevant GitHub issue or pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contentious decisions may also be discussed by maintainers in Slack or in person at our Annual General Meeting, but any decision made there should be summarised back on the relevant GitHub issue or pull request.
```

Reviewer: This is the only use of AGM, so we should just spell it out.

## What to expect

- Homebrew exists to support its users, not upstreams.
- We may keep packaging software in Homebrew even if upstream would prefer users to install from an upstream tap instead. See [How to Create and Maintain a Tap](How-to-Create-and-Maintain-a-Tap.md#upstream-taps).
- Continued installs plus a lack of user reports that the software is completely broken to the point of uselessness will generally outweigh upstream claims that it is.
- We will not usually deprecate, disable or remove software only because upstream asks us to. Technical breakage, policy violations or broader project needs carry more weight. See [Acceptable Formulae](Acceptable-Formulae.md) and [Deprecating, Disabling and Removing](Deprecating-Disabling-and-Removing.md).
- Homebrew contributors and maintainers are usually better placed to decide how software should be packaged for Homebrew's users and infrastructure.
- If you release software under an open-source licence, Homebrew may package and redistribute it within the terms of that licence. If you need tighter control, proprietary licensing or other restrictions fit that goal better.

> - On contentious questions, the weight of input generally decreases in this order: Project Leader, Lead Maintainers, Maintainers, contributors, upstreams, Homebrew users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On contentious packaging decisions, the weight of input generally decreases in this order: Project Leader, Lead Maintainers, Maintainers, contributors, upstreams, Homebrew users.
```

Reviewer: We open with "Homebrew exists to support its users, not upstreams.", so we should make this target clear.
